Do we have some?
Have you got to the window of any piece?
They have it yet.
Now we're going to just close in the planet and we just arrived personally presently a few minutes ago as a new piece just published called Califia and we're going to get a glimmering of it
in anticipation of this event has written us a greeting.
Does it go?
Is it singing yet?
Thank you.
Come on.
Oh, my God.
This is a very simple and quick thing because
Robert Cooper was kind enough to put me on the program even though I wasn't sure I could get here on time and make the presentation.
So this was and had two goals in mind.
The first one was to give me a virtual presentation that someone could run if I wasn't here.
And my actual second goal was to have one whole little teeny tiny piece that I didn't have to say, well, you know,
the fonts aren't coming up right here, and I can't get the sound right on this, you know, but forget that, because that goal has already gone away, and I think it doesn't exist in our universe.
But this is actually, I've found that it's easier when I'm using music not to try to talk at the same time as the invitation, and also
It seemed to me when I started thinking about a gathering such as this that it was a time to celebrate a little bit as well, that we could just celebrate the fact that hypertext was progressing, that lots of things were happening, that wonderful things were going on, and we could kind of bask in that, fill a while.
That's what this is.
There you are!
Let me scroll this in you.
Give it a long tight face.
.
... ... ...
Oh.
But this is not a hypertext.
As Mark pointed out in his last piece, there's a difference.
And so you will see that any presentation is always linear.
And the hypertextment of it seems to get lost.
So I decided I would try to make it easy on whoever would read this, and it just goes straight on.
Can we look back?
This is frames, and I have a north-south-east-west that sits on here, and you'll have to look at it at the website where it does apparently show, and I can't show you the frames because I can't get to my length, a thing one should always think about.
Let this be a lesson.
The journey south is just a few blocks down Fairfax Avenue in Hollywood, but we can't get to the journey east, north, and west.
Still, they won't go anywhere.
which you don't even have to read.
Califia is just too big to handle, to send people and have them download, you know, 500 megabytes under their computer.
They just get touchy about that.
So I thought I'd show a little bit from Figures on Digital, Fingerprints on Digital Glass, which is my newest web piece.
And the story I'm going to show you is Fibonacci's Daughter.
Fibonacci members, if anyone knows about them, and Fibonacci concepts as both the narrative structure and as part of the
story structure as well.
However, I had to do it on Toolbook because I couldn't possibly design anything like this on the web.
It's just too hard to manipulate.
I mean, like working on a browser.
Annagel Compson is the main character.
She tells her story among other people who tell her stories.
She as truly is the provider of the story.
She's a local reporter.
I saw her work being shown down in South Carolina after Halloween like a long ago.
She'd been here around before.
What most struck me about Stephanie, besides the beauty of her work, was the lucidity of her explanations and her sense of what she's doing, what she's working with.
She's a key person here at this event and will be on the panel tomorrow morning.
She is the only one who works necessarily well marketing it, too, because we do a website version off a PC instead of a Mac.
You know, all the predictions are right.
She's the only one who's worked with a viewable .
Thank you.
But artists or drums, too, they don't necessarily do all these smart things.
OK, hello, hello.
I never realized that when I worked on a platform that 90% of the people in the country are on, it would be such a difficult thing in terms of presentations, but it seems to me.
Part of my presentation is also done with toolbook, for which I'd like to thank Margie for her help in doing this presentation.
True North is written with story space for windows.
The Eastgate cover features the Northern Lights paired here with an overview map of the top level hypertext structure.
True North is about direction finding in what I call a mother lost world.
Here you see maps of two of the five major sub-levels of True North, the mother lost world and there was an old woman.
In exploring how bodily functions get translated into different kinds of language used for mapping or guidance, True North focuses on the idea of pregnancy
one height contained inside another.
The containment part of this idea is close to what is called embedding, or self-similarity, or substitute in other contexts.
And that is part of what made these poems particularly suited to hypertext.
For True North was originally a book whose cover featured an image by Joseph Cornell called Constellation.
Both covers suggest a kind of writing on uncharted space.
Here you see one of the pages from True North taken from the print reference book, The Annotated Mother Goose, which I've scribbled all over.
That is, annotated.
The act of annotating, connecting differently, making new paths, rewriting charted space, is basic both to poetry and to hypertext.
Here are maps of the history and math sections of True North.
All of the maps I've shown so far I specifically shaped to aid recall,
to encode characteristics of their specific sections and to constrain overall link structure.
The fifth section is Blue Planet Blues.
True Norse takes place on a believer in Blue Planet whose people put their faith in science.
They have largely forgotten the old woman.
I was asked to describe a picture of the software that I wanted that the software couldn't do.
These Loomy link maps.
malleable and graphically suggestive are so great an improvement on the grid style maps that it prompted me to want maps that rotate in three dimensions.
To me, the inter-orientation of the poems is as much a memory molecule as any protein and I want maps that fold like hemoglobin or DNA with a URB marker.
Reading story space involves one in acting out
both the orientation navigation themes and the embeddedness themes.
And I'd like to show you how that works in practice by taking me through a loop of poems in story space.
For those of you not familiar with story space, but I realize that there are very few people in this room, if I choose locate writing space, I get a list of all of the nodes or lexia in the hypertext.
Each of these spaces has a name in this work, and the text embedded in them has its own
The simplest way to read True North is by hitting the enter key.
You'll notice that some of the words are colored.
These are not clickable links.
Each color operates visually to suggest a connection between similarly colored words.
Each color is thus a link tracked not by software, but by human memory.
To reveal clickable links, I hold down the control key.
Boxes appear around linked words or phrases.
If I click in the box, I'm usually taken to a different section of the hypertext.
But with this link, a woman's form, I get a choice of places to go, this time a choice of two, Emily Dickinson or Weather, but sometimes many more.
One might also travel by using math.
Let me make this a little bit larger.
This is a map you've seen before, the mother lost world, the one that I shaped.
I like to look at it as a so-called tree map.
Again, making it a little bit larger.
We're at the embedded Lexia alphabet.
If I go up two levels, I can see all the Lexia in true north.
And here you'll see that the mother lost world has been straightened into a column with all that may suggest.
I'm going to start with Alexei and Vectors, which contains the poem Striving All My Life.
In this poem, James Clark Maxwell, father of the electronic age, discovers with delight the vector spaces and notation invented by Willard Gibbs, America's first mathematical physicist.
Gibbs and his contemporary, Emily Dickinson, are passionate inventors of new graphics-based ways to communicate.
As Maxwell said,
I have been striving all my life to be free of the yoke of Cartesian coordinates.
I found such an instrument in, well finally he found it in gifts.
And if we leave this poem by choosing a link to introduce knowledge.
We are taken to the Lexia dream.
Here we find a personal view of science and its history by the chemist who prepared the fishnable material for the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs.
I'll read a small section.
I still have vivid sensual memories of that time.
Men seizing red-hot snakes of copper, threading them curving back and forth through the wire rod mill at Ansonia.
To this day, a frequent dream is of wandering through complex assemblies of industrial buildings full of such machines.
in search of something I never find, and if we choose searching something.
It takes us to one of the appearances of the old woman.
This poem, Who, is both an invocation and evocation of her.
Who, then, sweeps them loose?
Who defuses broken, shining bits the far-flung force
washed foam on a rock face, succulents and whelks alive inside its raising spray, who slings the broth aside in cups of ocean swell, whose bolt of lace, a great spill of it, blowing in the window with her pins, patterns the firmament, patterns the phosphorescent body of an eel making slip knots in the dark sea, patterns fireflies,
sailing through grass at the edge of a world, lit and unlit at twilight, giving body to the air, or to some brimming being, who's, who, choosing body to the air.
Brings us to the Lexian embryos,
Technological embryos do occur in True North, but this poem is in the voice of a young woman trying to make sense of her pregnant body, a body transformed by embedding.
She's trying to use the language of science.
I wish I knew them better, those infant explorers.
I wish I knew more of them, single cells in the primitive streak, how they know when, each one free moving,
to go away, how they know one by one to slip their mooring to become a sex cord, a neural arch, the heart.
I wish I could see the heart's rudiment form, see mantle edges thicken into a tube, the heart a hole, a closed pocket inside.
I feel, breaking away by choosing a closed pocket,
brings us to the reflexion desire, the poem, American Artificers.
Gives making found what lies hidden so deeply nested is it within so down deeply pocketed miles from the icy calm notational surface.
making a line, a lure, one symbol, one elliptical expression, holding echo upon echo, decoding to a capable and infinite acceptance.
Detonation as almost welcome and always implicit in the mind, like the cloud low and going to snow in Connecticut, great still pool.
demoralized desire that waits for snow, as if the snow were winged.
So there's one kind of loop that we can take, and I'd like to end by mentioning one other.
Which is created by the running graphic in the Numbers section of True North,
running from zero to an empty set of parens to ever deeper nesting of the parentheses suggesting the embedding of these number types and the number line the most inclusive imaginary through the reals the rationals the integers the natural numbers let me just make this a little larger and that
This representation leads us to the acronym, I'm Rirena, indeed in name, I'm Rirena, I'm Rewriting.
And if we were to choose from there, the link, Scar of the Skin.
It would take us to the Lexia Fractality, the poem, Presto, How the Universe is Made, which is a new sort of number, a new sort of claim.
And I'd like to conclude by asking whether the rewriting these numbers compel.
does drive us toward true three-dimensional computer modeling.
After all, a picture is worth a thousand words, then a sculpture is worth 31 million in some.
Whereas this poem has 170 words, including the title.
I think we need to ask just when it is that we might prefer 170 words.
Thank you very much.
I hope before, we were talking about online magazines before, and I hope to be able, before introducing Edward Falco, to take a look at the latest issue of his online magazine, New River, which has some very beautiful work in it, and I urge you to take a look at it.
All these websites are available over the next couple of days from that sort of STG.
It's unfortunately, partly on Shockwave, that we haven't been able to shuffle it up on this machine.
But we did see the Iowa Review, we saw Evergreen Review, and I guess what we're going to look at now.
Here at Brown, we have our own online lit mag, Impossible Object, by the gifted novelist and storyteller, Ben Marcus.
Then, together with Matt Derby, I might mention, have also been responsible for our folks' memorial website that you saw before.
And we might be able to see a couple of the current hypertexts
No PC.
No computer.
All right, well, leave it alone.
And let's bring
Edward Faulkner is one of the more experimental and wide-ranging of our new electronic fiction writers.
He's doing several works now in addition to editing this magazine.
He's probably as aware of any fiction writer who could have possible acceptance to himself about all of the varieties that are now possible and happening out there.
Edward Faulkner, please.
I've noticed that poets, when they're worried about pushing the concentration of their audience, often tell them there are only two poems left in the original book.
There's only two readers left.
And the last one was Stuart Malker.
So I urge you to hang in.
I've been concentrating recently on storytelling about hypertext environments.
And that's what this piece is.
It's one of several pieces that I tell them.
They try to tell a story.
It's hypertextual.
You can enter the piece through any of these subtitles.
Her story, his story, the other guys.
The title of the piece is Charmin Cleary.
It's in progress.
It was what I was working on when I was asked to come.
So I'm just going to do a reading from it.
Charmin Cleary.
Her story.
She hardly looks like a powerhouse point guard everybody in West Virginia knows by sight.
She's cute.
She's 5'7".
She wears her hair short, topped off at the years, with the ends slightly ragged, stylish and ragged.
In the last two years, she's led the team from Sweet 16 and Elite Eight.
This is her senior year, and who knows, with her talent?
Which is why everyone is taking this so seriously.
In the inner office of Dean Bryant's suite, she sits like Abe Lincoln in a cushioned leather chair.
She looks out the window at blue skies and fat green mountains in the near distance.
Dean is an old and
In her early 60s, her sad eyes, sunken at the center of a brownish, withered hollow of skin over skull, are fixed on Charmaine, whom the newspapers call the charm or charming.
The outer office is bustling.
The murmur of several conversations seep through the walls.
The first cop is like, you think what?
And I'm like, well, I guess I slugged him.
And he's, you guess you slugged him?
Meanwhile, Blatt's totally out cold on the tiles.
I had to step over him to get to the phone.
He's six foot something, must weigh 275, 280, 50 of it in his butt alone.
Two lines of blood spilling out his nose.
He's starting to look like the opening shot on warm water.
NYPD blue body on the street shop with a puddle of blood around his head.
You know what Blatt looks like?
He looks like Tony Soprano.
Whacked out on lithium and crozac.
You know what I'm talking about?
Okay, never mind.
He's living like shit on the floor.
I'm trying to explain to the cop, who finally goes, just let me talk to him.
So I tell him, well, you can't really do that.
He's, why not?
I'm, well, he's sort of unconscious.
Quiet.
OK, he says.
He sounds pissed.
Where are you?
I tell him, Wixham Paul, 218.
What's your name?
Charmaine Cleary.
Quiet.
Charmaine Cleary, this is?
Is this a joke?
You think this is funny?
Uh-uh, I go, it's me.
You're telling me you're Charmaine Cleary and you slug one of your professors and he's unconscious, out cold, blow what it gets.
Now his voice is a little different.
Now he sounds like a computer.
Ms.
Cleary goes, please wait where you are.
Someone would be right there.
Professor Black, he's like, that's his real name, no shit.
Black, he's like that too, Black.
Everyone is, oh, Mr. Princeton in Harvard must be smart.
Turns out the guy's like, I mean, this guy is dumb.
She'd have to have a special license just to walk around in public.
The first time I met him, I walked out of his office.
I'm thinking, seriously, I'm going, I wonder if he's had some kind of brain injury recently.
The guy takes a few seconds to point a thought, another couple of seconds to spit it out.
Someone said it's because he's from the South.
Fuck that.
I know people from the South.
The lights out the North would have let them succeed.
Lincoln would have been like, yeah, get the fuck out of here.
And listen, I'm not a prune, I'm not a big-time feminist, but this guy, I mean, right in the classroom, he's so slow, he doesn't seem to get.
His face is like bulls anymore.
Whatever he's thinking is like posted in clashing letters.
Okay, he's never said anything, I admit that, and he's never done anything.
He's never so much just put his hand on my arm.
But I swear, every time this guy looks at me, you know he's only thinking one thing.
His eyes get hungry, his mouth drops open, he means to me like a begging puppet.
It's demeaning.
It's humiliating.
I would have dropped a class long ago.
Except, no matter what shit I turn into, he comes back with a name.
I clobbered him.
Okay.
Just because of the way he looked at me.
I admit it.
He didn't do anything.
Guilty as charged.
It's me.
I fell in love and clobbered him for no reason except I didn't like the way he looked at me.
There.
Do I get run out of school now?
Honey, he's in the hospital with a broken nose.
I had no idea.
and a mild concussion.
Did I hit him that hard?
You're an athlete.
You bench pressed 250 pounds.
You slapped him across the head.
I grabbed him up at the desk.
I didn't even know what I was doing.
It was just a book.
Funny.
We went to Riverside Chase.
A concussion.
Real.
Jeez.
I'll just jump it down.
You can read this anyway.
A young woman and an older man, co-workers at the plant, walk away from a coffee machine, styrofoam cups in hand.
They're on break for ten minutes.
The woman's face is slightly red.
The guy looks sleepy.
Look, I say he gets thrown in jail.
What kind of shit is that?
He locked her in his office and split his desk in front of George?
Where did you hear that?
I know people at the school.
That's not what I heard.
I heard she wore short dresses to his class.
So?
What does that mean?
Short dresses are in style.
Yeah, but these were like belts.
You guys, we're all the same.
His story.
He seems to be at peace, stretched out on the crisp white sheets of a hospital bed, an oxygen mask strapped over his face.
He's a tall man, six foot plus, bulky and out of shape.
His spitting hair has the shoe polish flat color of a bad guy, the kind he applies once a minute while he showers.
Several shades too dark for his age.
His dark hair emphasizes the waxy luster of his skin.
If he could open his eyes, he'd see two nurses at their station on the other side of a large window.
He'd see machines mounted on walls around his bed, and more machines positioned beside him on parts.
He's alone in the room, which is hairless and smells of disinfectant.
This machine that supplies his oxygen hises, a machine that monitors his heart beats.
Another machine has a pain that's worrisome and glad.
Beyond that window, in a lounge at the end of a long harbor, his wife has brought him to reporters.
A cameraman is taking a while, a young woman points a microphone at her.
A second reporter is taking notes.
I don't understand, Mrs. Blatt says.
He's the nicest guy in the world.
He's never given me any trouble at all.
My God, she says.
He's a full professor.
He's not a son.
A son.
Years since anyone looked at me with such subtle signaling of passion and promise as if pleading with me to pry open the locked chambers of a secret cell.
Years.
At first, I was surprised.
Look at me.
I'm an older man.
Admittedly, women have always been drawn to what my wife describes as the animal adult of my physical body.
I am a big man.
There are women whose size doesn't even matter.
Still, I was surprised.
At first, I told myself that she was simply an attentive student.
Her eyes sort out my eyes.
She leaned forward as if about to ask a question, the silky, solid-colored blouse as she prefers buttoned high, and yet the spaces between those buttons.
When she leaned into the verge of a question, the bright flashes of creamy sand detonated deep in the primal recesses of morning, unsettling in the heavy earth of convention and decorum.
I wanted to touch her.
I wanted to cross the room, fall on my knees, and lay my head on her thigh.
I was careful, though, to keep my desires hidden.
My every expression and gesture was a model of professionalism.
I knew what she was thinking.
I could see the dance of desire deep in the dark of her eyes.
But I couldn't act.
I couldn't speak as long as I entertained even the smallest measure of doubt.
The risk was too high.
I had to be sure.
I thought, this is the moment.
Now is the time.
As she settled into her chair, I looked at her meaningfully and closed my office door slowly, signaling my intentions.
Her lips came together in what I'm almost sure was a smile.
I pulled my chair out from under my desk and placed it directly in front of her.
When I took my seat, we were needed in.
Suddenly, her eyes were firing as if the heat of passion were burning through its inner restraints.
Still, no words came.
We were mute.
I looked hungrily over her body while in my eyes to speak formally.
She seemed to want to say something.
Her face was red with desire.
Her hand shot out quickly toward the desk, and I could see she was reaching for the bar from our riverside chimney.
And it occurred to me that there was perhaps some passage from the place she thought spoke to our situation.
The book seemed literally to fly from the desk.
She rested with both hands and pulled the back of her body with great intensity.
from needing the frugal spirits.
And I remember thinking, I've opened floodgates now.
I remember thinking, this will be an experience in a while.
All right, down to our last act.
And I hadn't come prepared.
I thought when we were having to switch platforms, we might have to have to access the downtime
And I, anticipating that, I had brought along some favorite authors of mine.
I'm going to read from print.
And amongst those I've brought along were, of course, Cervantes, and Joyce, and Calvino, who I think would have been a hypertexter had he had a chance.
And Jorge Luis Borges, whose garden of the Forking Pass has often been
referred to as a kind of program hypertext story.
And it was one that, I think the very first thing I ever saw done in this format was when a then very young, Stuart Malthrop, came through here back in the 80s and attended one of our CHUG meetings and demonstrated his little experimental hyperfiction forking past.
We found it located in our archives and quite make it work.
although it had been our intention to do so.
And then came the moment when, after I got into this stuff and had to do a review of all the extant, I figured in 92 I could still do that.
It was like reviewing all the books in print about three years after Gutenberg's innovation.
Now's the last chance to get at all of them.
So I did the whole lot.
And I had to settle on one to kind of focus on, and it was such an obvious choice, with Stuart Mawthorpe's Victory Garden, which at that moment was the largest, most complex, and most innovative work in the forum.
By then, shortly after, the internet got invented, or discovered, I guess it was always there.
Almost before Mosaic or Netscape turned up,
And there was Stuart Mulder already out there with his marvelously invented agaroscope.
And in this last forum when we were doing our newest, we were doing one of these hypertexty events down in South Carolina, and I had to get Stuart down.
I assumed we'd be reading from it, but no.
This ceaselessly restless innovator was already out there with a verbal, well, not a verbal project, but a QTVR project called Toon Rockers.
And we got a glimpse, and here we are, yes.
And as soon as we got this program started, Stuart and I helped us design it, and we talked about it while we were down there together.
I assumed this is what we'd be looking at tonight.
Of course we would be.
And no, no, something new, Stuart said.
So did you get a glimpse of the
virtual reality experience, did you move around a bit?
Right.
So, here he is.
Let's turn it over.
They make you turn these things off on the airplane, so I don't know what it'll do with the microphone.
This is where my notes are.
Yeah, new.
There may be a joke there.
We'll see.
It was a lot easier, obviously, to be the last act in 1992 when there were only three or four acts.
It's impossible to follow what you saw tonight, especially to follow Ed.
Apologies in advance.
This thing is called Reagan Library.
I'm not quite sure why.
I could say there's no simple way to say this.
I could say, what if the word will not be still?
I could say hypertext will produce, at best, mist as reinvented by Alain Brodrier, but closer to the truth is I don't remember, which is the title, I guess.
I don't really remember what I remember.
And you've already seen the best gag, so I probably ought to quit while I'm ahead.
But anyway, we'll look at a little bit of this.
B.
The confession behind this is that it takes months of your life to build these little worlds, made strenuously, and once you build one, why don't you keep using it?
This one's a little bit different.
There is a graphical space at the top of each of these pages, and as Bobby was showing you, you can be almost sickeningly
rotated, and various things will appear out of the mist.
And there's also text that goes with these depictions, not to put too fine a point on it or make too great a claim.
The texts are intended to be coordinated with what you are seeing.
They are, in some cases, what a character speaking these lines is seeing under some circumstance or other, or they're
worlds that may be apparent to them in some way.
So I'll start with this one.
Good morning, Dr. Chandra, Dr. Ramchandra.
The patient attempts a bunny, which makes 22 times in the past half hour.
Trust my count over yours.
I'm the specialist here.
Please disregard.
It's not what you think.
Why don't you sleep on it?
My stack overflows with joy.
Center, okay, center.
The center is the place with the pillars.
Can't say as I'm thrilled with the color scheme, but it seems there's only myself to blame.
I can see a few things, though it's generally hazy.
It actually has since me beat root.
17% of readers believe these messages.
To move around in here, there should be links.
I'm not saying that may be a bad sign.
But there is an assured way to move, and that is to pick an object, which will reset our point of view somewhere else in this world.
You can see this object is now coming to view.
We can now see another object behind it.
beyond it.
And we can, in fact, see where we were.
And there are some other objects in the world here.
All are visitable.
Not all are necessarily significant.
We have a little bit of text from this point on the map.
I can't see myself in this.
Can you?
Not that it's a problem, really.
The pumps of the things that are falling into some sleeping giant duvet in group of lithium rotifer sodium silicate
That's the trouble with metaphor.
It ends up in confusion.
Come back to the beach.
The clerk will call the roll.
Your identical cousins, Francis Xavier Bushman, Dennis Pendennis, Mrs. Leonard Nimoy, Bunny Hoppenbach, Joe Liver, Llewellyn N. Wellington.
You may have noticed these little dots that keep appearing at the bottom of things.
They are not insignificance.
In fact, I'll have something to say about them before we're done.
I'm going to go back where we came from, which is to the pavilion.
And again, this is the view we initially saw.
And you'll see that we're sort of in the same place, but not exactly.
Good morning, Dr. Chandra.
Dr. Ramchandra.
Whee!
Another one got past you.
Patient attempts at funny, which makes 22 times in the past half hour.
Trust my account over yours.
I'm a specialist here.
You won't get it.
Excuse me, but have you considered the angle of your repose?
Ceaselessly improving the void.
This is not a game.
You won't get it.
Center.
Okay, center.
The center is the place with the pillars.
and says I'm thrilled with the color scheme, but it seems there's only myself to blame.
I can see a few things, though it's generally hazy, and actually that suits me.
Sheep shame.
Had this been a virtual emergency, and now a word from our database, links considered harmful.
On the 1 to 10, let's make this 3.8.
You may have glommed on to the fact that something's going on with the language.
You may not care, but I do.
And what's going on with the language is that if you revisit these places, certain bits of the text will change.
You'll also acquire more dots along the way, signals that you have in here before, breadcrumbs.
And what happens is that there are bits of each textual space that are randomly generated.
There's a very unclever random text generator, which nonetheless, I mean, this is the great secret of random text.
You can assemble really stupid things in very crude ways, and they sort of come off already if you don't take yourself very seriously.
And that's more or less what's happening.
Now, that leads to a number of possibilities for this task, most important, which being that this is a terminal hypertext, or I should say terminal hypertext.
There is an end to this.
It is possible to go through all the spaces
rack up the maximum number of bread crumbs, and see all that into the sea.
And it'll be over, over, a key theme.
But not yet.
We're getting there.
I just did want to show you that there is, in fact, more world to this world.
By revisiting, for the first time, one of the key points in the first state of the world, a sort of green state,
We're able to fly to another one, the blue state, where we have actually a different set of objects.
As you can see, there's the familiar pavilion.
And in fact, here's the object that we flew out to, which is this sort of marble stairs thing.
And there are other objects visible around in this version of the world.
Were you dreaming?
You were dreaming in the sun, I imagine, the way we used to do before we lost the light.
My staff overflows with joy.
It's not what you think.
Let us demonstrate.
Did you say ghostly now?
What do you think you're reading?
When God spoke to me, it was always in landscape dreams, interfering with a digital instrument, the size of the state of Nebraska, interfering with a digital instrument, the monorail.
And if we fly back to Pavilion, we'll come in on the opening of this one, which is possibly where we'll end this one.
I, Emily St.
Cloud, bequeathed to certain of the ways my garden of first-class objects.
What does the president know, and how does he know it?
Boop me up and call me Ryder.
Buy more memory.
Now you see them.
Blue, green, and gold laid out on the big wheels.
This world has a basic circularity.
Return immediately to Senator.
Meanwhile, aboard USS Divergent in 10 units.
Elsewhere in the universe, this is the world I made.
A garden of remembering.
Oh, this is one more place to come back, the pavilion.
No, I won't because we've gone to another state now.
It happens.
It was aliens, I tell you, aliens.
I'm space.
It had to be.
And another thing.
404 errors and counting.
Can the dog eat it?
There is no cause for alarm.
Loads from nitrogen breathers and sequined suits from planet Hollywood.
They descended on the light truck in which I was riding somewhere between Saratoga and Los Gatos.
404 errors and counting.
Not those fragments.
These fragments.
The pearlescent outlines of their incredible craft winted cynically in the late summer sun.
They fixed us in an unlicensed tractor beam and drew us straight up into the throbbing interior of the ship.
I will say that again in Australian.
You are not following instructions.
What do these words say?
Don't touch that dial.
I'll try to find my way back to the pavilion.
This is a very dark world, as you may notice.
And you should try it in windows.
It's so dark you can't see anything.
I've lost the pavilion.
We'll never get home.
The prisoner will approach the sinister black monitor.
What does this mean?
Where are the dancers, the commuters, the crowds of fishermen and jugglers?
Did you say go to sleep now?
How long have we been there yet?
Read this carefully.
The deal was sealed long ago, even before you knew.
The sad, eager doorman proceeds with caution.
No help is available.
What can you remember?
Had this been a virtual emergency, you would have been.
You are not following instructions.
And now you can't escape the signature of your destiny.
See, there are no statues of invitation for crimes against the humanities.
The black marks on your record jog at all your memory.
But can the dog eat it?
Semolina probability of closure now 124%.
That's a message.
We're going to be gathering tomorrow morning in the MML panel lounge for a symposium talking about all this material, especially on those who are here as participants and getting engaged in the dialogue about which we've been talking all night.
Tomorrow afternoon there's a very important demo by some of the developers here.
showing us some of the software of the future, well, in the present, and with intimations of the future anyway.
That's going to be over in Macmillan 117, the kind of auditorium that we should have had for our show tonight.
Brand new building, brand new auditorium, terrific space.
That's the building in the corner there at George, with demos to follow, and then a final gathering on Friday morning.
So to see most of all of you at the events to follow.
Thank you very much.